.\" (C) Copyright 2020 Christian Sharpsten <christian.sharpsten@gmail.com>
.\"
.TH PDB_CONVERT_SECTION_OFFSET_TO_RVA 3 2020-04-04 libpdb

.SH NAME
pdb_convert_section_offset_to_rva \- convert a section index/offset pair to an RVA

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <pdb.h>
.PP
.BI "int pdb_convert_section_offset_to_rva(void *" context ,
.BI "                                      uint16_t " section_idx ,
.BI "                                      uint32_t " section_offset ,
.BI "                                      uint32_t *" rva );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR pdb_convert_section_offset_to_rva ()
converts the
.RI ( section_idx ,
.IR section_offset )
pair into a Relative Virtual Address (RVA) and returns it in
.IR rva .
This function can be used to get an RVA for symbols returned by
.BR pdb_get_public_symbols (3)
and
.BR pdb_lookup_public_symbol (3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR pdb_convert_section_offset_to_rva ()
returns 0 on success, or -1 on error.
Detailed error information can be retrieved with
.BR pdb_errno (3).

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPDB_NO_PDB_LOADED
No PDB file has been loaded into
.IR context .
.TP
.B EPDB_INVALID_PARAMETER
A required output parameter was NULL.
.TP
.B EPDB_INVALID_SECTION_IDX
An invalid section index was specified. See NOTES.
.TP
.B EPDB_INVALID_SECTION_OFFSET
An invalid section offset was specified.
This may happen if the offset is larger than the section size.

.SH NOTES
Note that section indices for symbols are biased by 1 to differentiate between
symbols that are not associated with a section and symbols that are in the
first section.
A section index of 0 indicates a symbol is not associated with a section.

Furthermore, symbols that have a section index that is equal to the number of
sections plus one belong to a special segment that has a dynamic base.
These special symbols indicate dynamic relocations, and are commonly used to
describe symbols affected by Kernel Address Space Randomization (KASLR) on
recent Windows kernel releases.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pdb_get_symbols (3),
.BR pdb_get_public_symbols (3),
.BR pdb_lookup_public_symbol (3),
.BR pdb_errno (3)
